I'm not allowed to want this thing, but
I want it. There's a lot of war that
comes with that. When you own your want,
you have to own the fact that it's okay
for you to have it. And most people, a
lot of what they want, they're actually
not okay to have.
>> You were in the I don't want money. I
don't want money to rule my life. But
behind all of that, there's a want.
>> There's nothing [music]
that you do that isn't based in a want.
>> Wanting is aliveness.
>> Wanting is aliveness, right? How much
would those people's lives change if
they could just be inside their wanting?
>> Everything would change. To really be
able to understand and feel and speak
your wants cleanly can absolutely change
lives.
>> Hey Joe.
>> Hey. I'm so excited you're willing to
talk about this [music] today about
wants.
>> Yeah,
>> this is a topic that's just really up
for me right now. I'm just really
excited about it.
>> As am I. Yeah, I've been thinking a lot
about it for the last couple weeks.
>> Me, too. I don't know what's making it
be in the air or whatever it is, but
I've been noticing across a bunch of my
clients, it's just this huge unlock.
>> Yeah.
>> For so much.
>> Yeah. So I really wanted to get this
topic in front of people as soon as as
soon as possible.
>> Yeah, it's a great topic. I think it
like it's capacity to change your life
is is tremendous to really be able to
understand and feel and speak your wants
cleanly can absolutely change lives.
It's changed mine. Has changed a lot of
people's.
>> Absolutely. Me too.
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. So I guess let's start with sort
of the problem.
>> Yeah. So what is it that's making it
hard for so many people to be with their
wants and their wanting?
>> So I think the first thing is that
people think about wants as objects but
the more key piece is that wanting wants
to feel wants is to feel it's an
emotion. And so I can have the
experience of sadness and I can have the
experience of wanting. And you can say
you have wants but what that means is
that you are feeling wanting about a
thing. Right? You you have a subject to
your wanting. But usually what I noticed
is that people either have access to the
feeling of wanting. they can feel it
without resistance or [snorts] they
don't have access to the feeling of
wanting and they um can't feel it but
they either can't notice that they're
feeling it or they feel with so much
resistance they feel like they're bad
for having it etc etc. Yeah.
>> And typically the reason that this was
in a person
basically taught them or their
caregivers or teachers or whoever taught
them that their job was to satisfy the
caregivers's wants rather than the that
the caregivers's job was to satisfy
their wants.
And and so that also perpetuates itself.
Meaning parents who are not good with
owning their own wants often make the
children satisfy their wants. When the
cycle of the caregiver is taking care of
the wants of the child, then everything
seems to work out fine. But when it's
the child's job to give take care of the
wants of the caregiver, then that's when
everything gets all turned around and a
lot of disturbance happens psych
psychologically a lot of disturbance
happens for those people. And there's
studies around it that show that people
who were raised with like healthy
attachment instead of anxious attachment
or avoidant attachment are much better
at claiming, owning, sharing their
wants, have better relationships because
of it even.
>> Yeah.
>> I mean, of course. Of course.
>> Yeah. Okay. So, so what are the kinds of
things that happen when somebody is not
good at owning their wants or being with
their wants?
>> Yeah.
So, so, so typically what you'll see is,
so if I was told as a child that my job
was to take care of my parents, then I'm
not good at feeling my wants, but I also
think that the road to happiness is
taking care of others. So, there's
usually a tremendous amount of
codependence going on. So, there'll be a
lot of taking responsibility for other
people's happiness. You see this in
bosses too where where [snorts]
when a boss or a leader of a company
feels like it's their job to take care
of all the employees, you'll see the
same thing happen where they'll be
caretaking the employees and so the
employees start to resent them. Whereas
the structure of everybody taking care
of the company is is the the one that
actually makes for a successful company.
And so being a a leader that is
constantly trying to take care of all
the employees without having the idea
that the employees need to be taking
care of the business and that that's the
primary purpose that everybody is there
for will make for really bad companies
makes for really bad families and makes
everything go go go crazy. So one of the
big things is codependence is created.
Codependence means resentment is
created. So there's a lot of codependent
and resentment when people aren't being
able to own their wants. That's like the
biggest thing that happens when people
don't own their wants. The other thing
that happens when people don't own their
wants is that they have a hard time
getting the life that they want. Right?
So, [snorts]
you know, I want to be a billionaire.
It's like this thing that you can do in
the side of your mind, but you're not
taking any actions around it because
it's actually not okay to want it.
If a person's like, "Actually, it's
perfectly great for me to want to be a
billionaire. I have no problem, no
shame, no embarrassment. I just think
it's fantastic that I want to be a
billionaire." I would put my money on
that person becoming a billionaire much
quicker than somebody who can't own that
desire.
Or so whether that's the desire to win
or the desire to be the best or the
desire to be a billionaire, whatever
that desire is, to be able to own that
desire makes it much more possible for
that thing to actually occur because
there's no war in yourself with it. If
you have a war with your wanting, it
really makes it harder to achieve the
thing that you want. So that's another
thing. The other thing that happens is
that people ask for the wants when they
have the wants, they ask for the wants
sideways.
>> And so that creates a tremendous amount
of disturbance in a relationship. So
instead of saying, "Oh, um, hey, I would
really like this," they'll [snorts]
try to please you to get it or they'll
assume that you know it or they'll ask
for it in this really mean way because
they were wanting it for the last, you
know, two weeks but they didn't get it.
So then now they're asking for it in a
mean way. Or when they just ask for
their wants, they say it really meekly,
like, "Oh, I was wondering if you could.
Are you sure?" You know, or they ask for
it way too strong, like, "Why don't you
ever give me what I want? Why don't you
take care of me?" So, so that it
disturbs the communication between
people and therefore the the
relationship starts to fall apart if
people can't own what they want with one
another.
>> Yeah. Absolutely.
>> Yeah. So for instance, if I see a
marriage that's falling apart, one of
the things I guarantee is that nobody
has set forth recently
what they want in the marriage. Like
this is what I want. They don't even
have that conversation.
>> Yeah.
>> So those are all those are some there's
probably more, but those are the ones
that come to mind right away,
>> right? Absolutely. So okay, so it can
poison a business, it can poison a
relationship, and it can lead to a
person not having the life that they
want,
>> right? And a lot of codependence.
Codependence is like the biggest thing
is like people will start trying to make
folks happy to get what they want
instead of asking for what they want or
going out and getting what they want.
>> I would maybe add a variant of what you
were pointing at
>> please. um something that happen this
might even be gendered a little bit but
I think more often it happens that women
are sort of socialized to take care of
other people's needs first or like
that's the most important thing and then
it often seems to me that there are
women in this world who although they're
you know wildly successful people in a
lot of ways it just there's something in
them that they just can't be with the
part of themselves that wants as though
that's selfish or as though that's
dangerous or just I it's like so super
spicy there. Occasionally there's people
that'll try to point them to their wants
and you can just watch them like
>> Yeah.
>> Oh no, don't make me go there. I'd
rather be with my anger and my fear.
Don't make me go to my wants.
>> Yeah. Don't make me feel that. And I I
do think there is some gender aspect to
it. Across cultures, they they've shown
that women are generally more agreeable
than men. But I think that there's a
uh also an assumption built into that.
So being agreeable means that hey I I
want to I want to find the common ground
and that's something that women have a
greater tendency to do than men on
average not individually but on average.
Um but I can make sure that you're doing
okay and care for you and still own my
wants. And so a lot of people somehow
confuse the fact that oh
that I if I own my wants I'm not taking
care of you. And and the reality is is
that if you own your wants you are
taking care of the person better. And
the reason is I'm telling you how to
succeed in our relationship.
>> Yeah.
>> So if I express my wants to you then you
know if it's a match if you want to join
if you want to give them to me. If you
don't want to give them to me you know
how to win. You know how to make me
happy. If I don't express those things
to you, none of that is there. So,
you're really not taking care of me very
well. And so, somehow we get this
conflation in our head that me making
sure you're okay, which is a fine thing.
We all care. We're natur. It's natural
for us to care about each other. Not all
of us, but almost all of us naturally
care about one another. Part of caring
is to tell somebody what you want.
>> Absolutely. I love that. Yeah.
>> I love that definition. Yeah. So, I
guess we're getting into the next part,
which is like what is I mean, like I
have been seeing this absolute magic
lately of just directing people to first
be able to just be with their wanting
and then to own it.
>> Yeah.
>> Like what is what is it that you see?
What is what makes this so amazing and
how do you do it? [sighs]
>> It's a this is a tricky thing. It's like
the way I would say it is
I'm responsible
for who I am with my children and with
my wife, but I'm not responsible for who
they are.
Right? So, I'm responsible for
am I showing up loving? I'm responsible
for do I own my triggers. I'm
responsible for if I apologize if I've
if I've not been the person that I want
to be. That's what I'm responsible for.
But what I'm not responsible for is
getting my wife in a good mood. I can't.
It's it's like it's not within my realm
of control. And if I do it, then I'm
deeply disempowering her. I'm saying,
"Oh, you need help to be happy. So, I am
going to help you." Yeah. You know, or
[snorts] so. So, it's like there's
there's besides hubris in it, it's also
just like deeply disempowering. And
that's true for my children too, which
is, you know, my daughter is sad. My job
is to be with her sadness. It is not to
take responsibility for her sadness.
>> Right?
>> So my responsible is who how I am, how
I'm showing up. My responsibility is not
making somebody else happy or taking
responsibility for them.
>> Yeah. And still, it strikes me that
there's a really easy unlock here for a
lot of situations in relationship where
somebody says a want, you can really do
a lot of work just by being like, I love
that you want that.
>> Even if it's like, I'm not I'm not going
to give that to you right now.
>> Yeah.
>> But I honestly I I love that you want to
go to the movies tonight.
>> That does not work for my schedule.
>> Right.
>> I love that you want that.
>> Yeah.
>> I'm excited to hear that you want that.
>> Absolutely. That's like even a step
farther than is necessary. It's a a step
I like. It's like it's a really great
step. But just being okay with, oh,
cool. You want to go to the movies?
That's awesome.
Like, you know, like fantastic. Instead
of, well, I don't want to go to the
movies, but they want to. And if they
don't, then they're going to be
resentful for me because I don't want to
go to the movies, so okay, I'll go to
the movies, right? Or, oh, they want to
go to the movies, but I can't, but I
just can't because I got work to do, and
they want me to buy them a bigger house,
and I just can't go to the movies.
>> Right. Right. Or you always want to go
to the movies.
>> Exactly. [laughter]
>> Yeah.
>> Right. All of that instead of like, oh,
right, cool. I totally dig that you want
to go to the movies.
>> Yeah.
>> And so, so, you know, the studies show
that relationships are better when
people can own their wants for this
reason. And the the thing that happens
is usually the person who's upset at you
owning your wants saying like, "Oh, I
want to go to the movie with you, but I
can't today because X, Y, and Z." And
they get like, "How do you so
self-entitled? You're selfish not going
to the movies with me."
If you are that kind of person, then
that's a really great indicator that you
are not good with your own wants, that
you feel like you have to sacrifice for
>> other people,
>> other people. And so of course they
should have to sacrifice for you.
>> That's right. Like wait, we have an
agreement. We sacrifice for each other,
right? Like you do you don't want
to do to make me happy. I do that I
don't want to do to make you happy. Now
you're not living up to the agreement.
Goddamn it. That's really what that is
about.
>> Yeah. So there is this kind of loop that
somebody could get stuck in there as
they're moving towards being able to own
their wants of just like, but I do want
to make my partner happy. So what would
you say to somebody? [laughter] like you
just can't make your partner happy.
Okay, so if that if it was true then
think about the person who is the
biggest doormat in a relationship
and then look at their partner and say
are they happy? And the answer is
absolutely not.
>> Yeah,
>> they're not happy.
>> They're probably a kromagin. They're
probably angry most of the time
>> because they don't feel met. They don't
feel like they've got someone they can
trust. I can't trust you to even tell me
what you want.
>> Yeah.
>> And that's not to say that they won't
get angry when that person starts
standing up for themselves. They will
cuz they're used to this pattern.
And and I think that that's why people
have a hard time owning their wants is
because they're very scared. And and
it's true. People will get angry at them
for owning their wants. For a while
that's going to happen. And I think
that's the thing that prevents people. I
can't own the thing that I want because
people will get upset at me or people
will let me down.
>> Yeah, I was gonna say I I wouldn't go so
far as to assume that people are
necessarily gonna get angry when you
start owning your wants. In fact, I've
really seen quite the opposite. I've got
some clients who start owning their
wants and their partners are thrilled.
It's like they get to see them for the
first time.
>> I'm saying that I agree with you. I'm
saying that a lot of people prevent
themselves from saying their wants and
their stories are people will let me
down. People will get angry at me.
>> Yeah.
>> Or I'm going to look selfish.
>> Right.
>> Those seem to be the three stories that
people tell themselves.
>> Yeah.
>> When for not owning their wants.
>> Maybe. Also, I'm bad. I'm bad for having
a want.
>> Yeah.
>> Which is a version of I'm selfish. And
so those are the things that people tell
themselves. And some people will think
you're selfish and some people will get
angry at you, but not the majority. And
and typically over time those people
change their tune or they leave.
>> Yeah. I mean, something you almost hit
on or maybe you did.
>> Yeah.
>> Another thing that I think keeps people
from really owning their wants is just
it's just really vulnerable. Maybe that
speaks to the thing of like I I'll get
disappointed, but it's also like I'll be
seen.
>> Yeah. There's something there. And I
know it feels that way, but I think it's
the same way that like crying feels
vulnerable or I know this is weird for
other people to get, but um but those
who get angry know that there's like a
vulnerability in anger or there's a
vulnerability
there's a vulnerability in allowing
yourself to feel something that you
don't normally let yourself feel and
then you have a whole set of stories,
right? So it it was very vulnerable for
me to express sadness in front of people
because I had a story that I was going
to be made fun of because that's what
happened. I was made fun of or abused
cuz that's what happened. I was abused
when I cried only to find out what what
happens is people actually usually come
and comfort me. But it felt vulnerable.
>> Yeah.
>> And it um I think similarly with wanting
people feel very vulnerable because they
feel like they are going to get
rejected. It's like, "Oh, this is a very
vulnerable thing." And the story is if I
share my want, then they'll know. They
maybe they can take advantage and
they'll definitely reject me. And what
the truth of the matter is is that you
you feel less rejected because you're
not rejecting yourself.
>> Yeah.
>> Like by not sharing your want, you're
rejecting yourself. That's not okay. So
you've already reject you've already
suffered the rejection.
So as long as the world doesn't reject
you a 100 times out of a hundred, then
you're going to suffer less rejection.
And the [snorts] other thing is that the
thing that you think makes it weak,
meaning someone's going to take that
want and manipulate me, the when you own
your want, you're far less
manipulatable, right? The person who's
manipulatable is the person who's like,
>> I want to be rich, but I'm not allowing
myself, so I'll go buy a lottery ticket,
>> you know?
>> It's not the person who's just like,
"Yeah, I clearly want to be rich, and
yes, I understand a lottery ticket isn't
going to get me there,
>> you know?" So, so usually it's the
person who can own their want that's
less manipulated than the person who
can't own their want.
>> Great. I love this. This starts to speak
to something I was hoping to ask, which
is like
>> what about people who don't want to be
with their wants because they're afraid
that like then they'll get into sort of
the capitalist machine or if you want to
say it another way like wanting is kind
of the like the the origin of suffering
that that sort of
>> way of approaching the world.
>> So let's do the capital machine first.
You are in it.
>> [laughter]
>> You can you don't you like unless you
have a good plan to change the
capitalistic machine and and you know
it's always changing but like change it
in a substantial way then you're in it
whether you're living in a cabin in the
woods or not you're like you're in the
machine on some level. So
>> you almost said something really
beautiful that I would love to double
click on which is like so so let's take
as an assumption it is my assumption
anyway that your wants are driving
everything that you do
>> correct
>> regardless of whether you've owned them
or not correct
>> but if you don't own them then you are
doing a bunch of things
>> like sideways as you said this sort of
control patterns and things like that
and that is something that systems can
hook into. So if you if you're not
admitting to yourself that you want to
be rich,
>> yeah,
>> then you're more likely to do things
that are less likely to get you rich,
but more likely to get people to uh sort
of help people extract money from you in
your attempt.
>> Absolutely. Yeah, that Yeah, I agree.
And I mean the interesting this
particular I have a story around this.
So when I was younger, I was I was
living I was rejecting money. I thought
it was bad. My dad wanted money. I felt
rejected by my dad because of his
pursuit of money. So I thought money was
bad
and I was living on very little money
and I was very proud of that and I was
rejecting the system. And um my friend
said to me one day came up to me and
said you know it's really expensive the
way that you're poor and I'm like what
what are you talking about? And I saw
that I wanted the freedom from money,
but to have freedom for money, I had to
work really hard, you know, like I had
to change my own transmission out of the
van.
>> Yeah.
>> I somebody else didn't have to do it. I
had to I wanted to travel, so I had to
work for like 10 hours to find that like
one ticket to save me the $20 to get to
the place to there was just like all the
things that I had to do to live off of
whatever it was, $10,000, $12,000 a
year. and and I realized like, oh,
there's no more freedom here than if I
buy into the system, what I thought was
buying into the system. And now that I'm
on the other side of that, and I'm I'm
like successful in the system, I no more
agree with the system than I did back
then. And I'm no more buying into it
than I did back then. Like the whole
thing was a construction of me not
owning my wants.
>> Yeah. which was really I want my dad's
love which is what I what was really
what I wanted had nothing to do with
money and so
so all of that was just was just this
weird constructed life built around not
fully owning my wants.
>> Absolutely. And there's another really
beautiful thing there that I would love
to double click on which is like
>> a lot of the time the thing that people
encounter is the kind of don't want like
you you were in the I don't want money I
don't want money to rule my life you
know that's get that away from me in
some way but behind all of that
>> right
>> there's a want
>> yeah that's right don't wanting isn't a
want right like I don't want that is a
way to not actually feel the feeling of
wanting
Exactly.
>> And so that's a great practice generally
is if if you can write down on a list of
p like a list here's all the things I
know I don't want then write down all
the things that you do want and allow
yourself to feel those.
>> Yeah.
>> It's tremendously transformative. It's
like playing to win rather than playing
not to lose. And so much more success is
driven in business or in art or in life
by being able to live into the thing you
want rather than to live to the thing
that you don't want.
>> Yes.
>> So much more powerful.
>> Yes. Okay. So the other thing there was
uh the people who sort of think that
desire is the root of suffering and so
they just don't want to be with their
wants.
>> Yeah. Yeah. So I don't know if there's a
mistransation. So, like that's a very
Buddhist thought. Typically, craving and
aversion are the root of suffering. Um,
there's nothing that you do that is
embedded in a want.
>> I'm sitting here having a conversation
with you. There's a want to do that.
[gasps]
Even if I was doing it out of
obligation, then there is a want for you
not to abandon me. Right? So, whatever
it is, everything that we do is based on
a want. And in fact, one of the ways
that I learned that was that there's
this form of directing actors. And if
you tell an actor, apparently, if you
say to an actor,
do it happier, do it sadder, like never
works. You never get the performance.
But if you say to an actor, what you
want in this scene is X, Y, and Z,
>> then the performance happens.
>> Absolutely. Wanting is aliveness.
>> Wanting is aliveness. Right. So
there's I think a lot of confusion in
this idea of craving and aversion as
compared to wanting.
>> Yeah.
>> Right. So craving is kind of an
obsessive wanting. I would call it it's
like I want something and I don't feel
like I'm going to be complete without
it. I do not feel like I am going to be
safe without it. I do not feel like I am
going to be okay without it. That causes
suffering.
>> Yeah. wanting totally natural. And the
interesting thing is is that the more
you own your want, the less the want
hooks you, right? It feels like there's
a sematics to this that really explains
it. Like if you can be all the way in
the want, like the feeling of wanting,
as you pointed out, is quite lovely.
>> Yes.
>> It's when you can't be with or in that
wanting when you're right outside of it
needing to solve it. Yes.
>> That's like the craving like I have to
solve the I can't be with the wanting so
I have to make it go away by solving it.
That is craving.
>> That's the craving. That's a beautiful
description of it. That's right. The the
trying to make the wanting go away
either through aversion or through
craving is the thing that causes the
suffering rather than oh cool there's
wanting.
>> Yeah.
>> What does that feel like?
>> What is it? What is it to actually want?
you know, and and like our mind plays a
trick on us often because it's like I
want that pair of shoes or I want my
dad's love or I want
but it's not actually ever the thing
that we most deeply want.
>> Right.
>> Right. And and so there's I think
there's a poem if your sons get hooked
by desire
don't worry about it. They'll follow her
home and she has seven more beautiful
sisters there.
And and basically what that describes is
when we follow our desire to walk,
as soon as we get there, there's the
next desire that like pulls us on that
evolutionary
path. But when we get, oh, I need to
have that thing and I don't want to feel
that thing, but I need to have that
thing, but I don't want to feel that
thing and I'm going to solve my want.
Then there's a weird way in which we're
not even trusting.
>> Yeah.
>> That evolutionary pull. We're not
trusting that, oh, these like that's the
want. It's telling me to go in that
direction. That's all that's necessary.
>> Yeah. So, I want to say that back to you
in different words and make sure that
I've got it. It's almost like um if you
identify with the want. So, okay, let's
put it this way. If I'm like, "Oh, I I
want to go out for some ice cream. I'm
going to take a walk down the street to
the place that has ice cream." And then
I get there and the ice cream place is
closed. But that's okay because actually
I I had a great walk,
then I then that's great. But if I have
somehow like clamped clenched on to the
want and I get really disappointed. If
I've identified like with the want for
the ice cream, then there's like
suffering there.
>> Yeah. Identified I think is one way a
good way to describe it. I think another
way to describe it is if you think that
that want is going to solve anything.
>> Ah yeah, that is
>> if [laughter] you think if you think
getting that want is like any kind of
like long-term solution set, you're kind
of screwed. So, I was recently did a
video on a guy who was like this world
champion golfer and the world champion
golfer was talking about how he likes
winning. He wants to win. He goes the
problem with winning is it feels good
for about 2 minutes and then it's gone.
>> Right?
>> And when he kept on saying though he
didn't say say that this was the key to
his success, he kept on saying I just
love to practice. I just love
practicing. I just love practicing. And
that's what makes him successful is that
he loves the doing of the thing, not the
getting the reward.
>> Right?
>> And what I noticed is that that is what
drives success across the board. Is like
if you love running a company, you'll be
successful. If you are running a company
to get rich, you may or may not be
successful. You definitely won't be as
successful.
And so, same thing with art. If you love
art for the sake of art, great. And I
see so many people, they love art, they
love doing art, and then they have the
opportunity to make money on art and
their love for the art goes completely
away,
>> right?
>> Because they're going for that end
state.
>> Yeah.
>> So if you think that it's going to
create any kind of happiness in your
system, then you're in craving.
>> Yep.
>> Or any kind of h happiness that lasts
more than like 2 minutes, you know?
>> Yeah. It's like you climbed outside of
the wanting itself.
>> Exactly. That's right.
>> Yeah. To bring it back. If I love
wanting ice cream because it takes me
out on these walks, because it does
these things in my life, then great. If
I need to have ice cream,
>> right?
>> Then it's a problem.
>> And that's the other thing is like
wanting anything is actually quite
enjoyable.
>> Yeah.
>> Right. Could you imagine if I was to say
to you, okay,
for the rest of your life, you can have
sex, but you're not allowed to want it.
>> Like you, I'm just going to stop. I'm
just kidding. [laughter] Exactly. I'm
I'm going to I'm going to strip away all
the wanting of sex, but you can still
have it.
>> No, that's terrible. But it's terrible.
Awful,
>> right? Exactly. That's life. Like if you
like it, it pull you don't get to want
you're pulling a lot of the joy out of
of life. And so so it's interesting.
It's so on one level what they're saying
is very true. I just think there's some
some of misransation which is craving an
aversion is is the root of a lot of
suffering.
>> Yes.
>> The other way to say that as you're
saying it is like identification
with something that isn't your truth is
the the root of a lot of suffering.
Yeah.
>> Another way to say it is being outside
of your wants trying to solve them
creates a lot of suffering. All of those
are other ways to say it. But to live in
your wants, to feel your wants, that
that gives life life, that gives zest to
life.
>> There is, by the way, a nuance uh that
I've heard about that translation, which
is um just the the difference between um
desire is the root of suffering and the
self- authorship of desire or the
authorship of desire is the root of
suffering, which I really appreciate.
I I have an idea of what that would
mean. What it means is that when you
think your strategy of what you want is
the suffering, not the wanting itself.
>> Oh, I like that. That's not even how I
took it. I took it to mean sort of like
the idea that my desires, my wants like
are mine. I created them and they're my
responsibility.
>> Uhhuh. Right. When you identify with
your wants, then they're that's the root
of suffering. Yeah. Basically any way in
which you are taking the wanting and the
getting what you want personally.
>> Yeah.
>> And the thing about that is that creates
suffering whether you get it or not.
>> Absolutely.
>> That's the thing that I think people
don't get is like the idea is
>> craving a billion dollars and getting it
is almost as painful as or as painful as
craving a billion dollars and not
getting it.
>> Absolutely. Because if you think that it
was going to solve the problem,
>> right?
>> Well, it's not going to.
>> Right. And that's what you get to see in
my world all the time. How many how many
people who have had every level of
success that anybody on this planet
thinks that they want and they're
miserable. There's just like it's
infinite. I mean, read People magazine
and you'll see it. You know, oh look,
that guy's worth $100 million and famous
and has a beautiful wife and just
imploded.
>> Right.
>> Right. It's a happens all the time.
>> So, since we're talking about wants,
what do you think? How much would those
people's lives change if they could just
be inside their wanting?
>> Oh, everything would change.
Everything would change. the people who
have been famous and happy for over two
or three decades.
They're pretty like when I see their
interviews, they seem pretty clear on
their wants as compared to the people
who haven't who like implode.
Like there's a great way to look at like
I I'm not allowed to want this thing,
but I I want it, but I'm not allowed to
want it, but I want it. There's a lot of
war that comes with that, and that seems
to lead to implosion. And I think I know
I see that in business all the time. I
see people who
got what they wanted, but they felt like
they didn't deserve it or they felt like
they were wrong for wanting it or their
want wasn't like cleanly stated and then
it like it all implodes on them. I don't
know how many time I can count a dozen
situations where somebody I know is
worth over hund00 million dollars and
you know went down to $5 million out of
just mistakes that they were way too
smart to have made just because they had
an internal war with that level of
success. And you see it all the time. I
mean that's why it happens so much in
lottery winners. something. I don't know
exactly the thing, but it's
90 100% of lottery winners of over
$und00 million are bankrupt inside of
two or three years or something.
>> I have also heard something like that.
>> Crazy like that,
>> right? It's because they were at war
with having that billion dollars or $100
million or whatever it was that like the
the war was in them. So, of course, it
went away. And so, that I think is just
and that doesn't just equate to money.
That equates to relationships. Yeah.
>> I can't tell you how many people I know
who have blown up what would be a great
relationship because they don't feel
like they deserve the love because they
can't actually own the want. And that I
think that's the thing is when you own
your want, you have to own the fact that
it's okay for you to have it.
>> Oh, yeah.
>> Right. And most people, a lot of what
they want, they're actually not okay to
have. They can't live in the world of
having it.
>> Absolutely. or they're just so
identified with chasing it.
>> Yes. Correct.
>> That the identity shift would be so big.
>> Yeah. Exactly.
>> Yeah.
>> Exactly. And we shape our world around
our identity.
>> Yeah.
>> Far more than the world shapes us and
our identity like once you get to a
certain age, you know, like our mental
state, our world is a reflection of our
mental state far more than the other way
around. Even though we'd like to feel
like that's not true. We'd like to feel
like
those people over there, they're making
my world horrible. If it weren't for the
Republicans/democrats/
dictatorship, then everything would be
But on some level, when you get past a
certain age
like we are constructing our own reality
with our perception of who we are.
>> Definitely. And you're pointing at
something else about owning wants that I
think is incredible is that it can
really just drop away that kind of like
victim story or bully story, whatever it
is that's been shaping the way that you
interface with the world.
>> It [clears throat] it it it changes your
identity. Like the wants are the
evolutionary path. Evolution means that
your identity changes, right? Like as we
evolve, we identify less and less with
the personal, more and more with the
universal. As we evolve,
our identity has to shift. We don't feel
like we're the same person at 50 as we
do when we're 20.
And so if there's any reason to feel
like it's vulnerable to to be in your
wants, it's because you will be
destroyed
or evolve. You can call whatever you
want to call it, but it's the same
thing. Who you are won't be there.
Destroyed, evolved, and something new
will be there.
>> Heck yeah.
Okay, great. So, if somebody is
listening to this and they realize
they're in a war with desire,
>> Yeah.
>> do you have any tips for them?
>> Yeah, the the the things that we said at
the beginning, those steps are really
important. And the most important of all
of them is to feel wanting. To allow
yourself to have the
physical
emotional experience of wanting.
>> Yeah.
>> To just sit in that, to bathe in that,
to savor that feeling and do it without
don't even like have a subject at first.
Just feel what it is to want. And that
is the most important of all the steps.
And then of course the other steps are
to start
taking apart all the things that you
think are wrong with wanting, which we
did earlier in the episode. And then the
next thing is to
>> really be able to see what it's like to
own your wants quickly and as much as
possible, particularly when you're
trying to take care of somebody, when
you think you're responsible for
somebody else.
>> Heck yeah.
>> Yeah.
>> Well, I'm still so excited. What a
pleasure.
>> This was a great conversation.
>> Thanks for asking. Thanks for asking to
do this.
>> Yeah, I really wanted it.
>> I really [laughter]
I wanted it, too.
>> All right. Thanks so much, [music] Joe.
>> Yeah, pleasure.
>> See you later.
>> Thank you everybody for listening. If
you enjoyed this episode, please share
it with a friend. We'd love for you to
subscribe to us. Rate us on your podcast
app. Mi Kelly sitting next to me over
here is our producer. This episode was
edited by Future Voice Media.